hey everybody welcome back to Norton
Lyon place the binding of issac address
plus where I'm feeling a little bit
better not quite like the Michael Buble
song and I'm feeling good doot-doot of
God the next challenge is speed
immediately
alright well let's uh approach this in
in an appropriate fashion how should we
handle the speed challenge I think the
way that we should handle the speed
challenge is to hold our until we get a
good item right off the bat now I don't
think the item the the relative values
of the items change that much on speed
versus how they are in a normal run any
guppy item will probably start with any
damage upgrade any tears upgrade that's
at least over you know a certain level
and then special considerations like an
early blank card is amazing because if
we get the Emperor along with it we're
set but this is is meant to be a little
bit on the challenging side for certain
technologies zero is good enough
especially considering there's an
Isaac's room in there it's probably not
like our number one choice either static
zero or sorry add technology zero wait a
minute what are the static tiers so
technology zero I've forgotten now all I
know is my eyes are wide cuz I'm using
them for the first time but the problem
with the Isaac's room is that we don't
really benefits we definitely do not
want that we don't really benefit from
it unless we can to bombs and then
unless we get three bombs actually and
then the odds are still very very strong
that we're gonna end up getting a crawl
space so a crawl space is not really
necessarily that useful although things
can change right now I'm like 50/50 on
how I feel about this run I think static
tears are doing a lovely job I don't
think they're gonna be ten out of ten we
need like a higher rate of fire
something that causes our tears to like
fracture upon landing that was bad on my
part but odds are we're probably not
gonna get that here might get a little
lucky though we'll see it's weird
because everything moves like twice as
faster the
clock moves in real time it's hard to
remember and then parse how to handle
that the super bandage is actually like
a ten out of ten get for us there
because super bandage gives us two
spirit hearts which we can hopefully
endeavor not to squander here end up
benefiting as a result I don't think
it's worth playing the the blood bank
but I could be mistaken I don't think we
need a speed upgrade as ironic as that
might seem and more HP is not the most
urgent thing right now let's check this
out okay actually quite like this even
if it only gives us occasional extra
damage that's something if it benefits
us by making the it's not even worth it
to begin with if it makes our
electricity deal more damage on tooth
shots as well which I have no reason to
believe it does or does not then we're
in a good spot but we need to up our
luck as well but you know anything that
gives us any sort of conceivable future
advantage is worth taking we definitely
don't care as much about the future as
we care about the present but kind of
got a focus a little bit on both right
now keep it thank you you get an extra
penny which I'm just gonna hope against
hope is a Lucky Penny and it isn't and
then I'm gonna blow this up and hope for
what I'm gonna buy this blow this up
hope for some lucky pennies or nothing
at all would be the worst outcome I
would suggest always is rough okay so
we're gonna be leaving here about on
schedule I think we wanted to be out of
here by like 12 minutes ish we should be
leaving by let's say like 12:45 seems
like fairly realistic
just give me pageant boy in seven like
upgrades that's like the greatest dps we
could ever expect right now these shots
by the way in case you haven't noticed
are essentially like impossible to dodge
the way that they come out on the speed
challenge here so that's pretty sweet
but please just die before you get to
mess with me too much open your mouth
and then we run also open the door get
on the floor and everybody walked it
dinosaur okay
perfect timing meat is okay a very small
damage upgrade little brim
I don't know I don't know I I feel like
my nate silver 538 percentage chances of
success are going up and down here I'm
not fully sure where I exist on this one
I actually just lost demon hearts as
well or their spirit hearts I mean I
think it is important that we picked up
more damage in the form of meat and
little brim but in common cold even as
well is not bad but are they making us
good enough fast enough that's the real
question we should be able to survive
relatively easily but it's much more
important that you know far be it from
just worrying about survival we got to
worry about the speed at which we're
able to make it through these as well so
another key gives us another item room
on the next floor which is really good
we definitely do not want to backtrack
we want to bank as much time as possible
as long as you hit the item room we're
gonna get a Lucky Penny here and it's
not a lucky that's okay okay double
Gertie junior is actually held however
we will get a spirit heart for finishing
once that's done the worlds are buried
oh dude and not like even from Qdoba or
Chipotle and I'm not looking down on
those I mean it burritos a burrito but
I'm talking about from like you know and
taqueria in the mission or something
like that these are top tier burritos
here these are the kind of burritos that
gets a got raided they get a Michelin
star they can slice and dice and make
julienne pinto beans I'm more on the
side of being stoked to have little brim
now and the my reasoning is very simple
if a it's good and B we can charge it
like in between rooms so we kind of get
like Herbie fully loaded before we even
pop off on a room we probably should
consider this is tough
I want it but I want to see what our
shop entails first because if our shop
has blank card or like any form of
mapping we probably want to go for that
but like the money that is but that's a
play it by my ear no no I got out of my
comfort zone but that's okay yesterday I
got so old it felt like I could cry I
don't think that's the lyric because
that's in between days you know what
this is probably gonna go up on one of
the in-between days Tuesday's like the
in-between is day right did this go up
on a Tuesday that would be perfect good
deal please that is a bad deal I'm gonna
do one more room and it wasn't a
terrible decision but it didn't give us
much and we're just gonna ignore the
fact that we're unfortunately missing
out on getting an item room there life
goes on
dank taps one we got four floors left to
do and there goes our deal with a devil
chance we got four floors left to do in
ten minutes two and a half minutes real
time per floor I think we actually may
want to take like a no deal with the
devil approach of course no deal with
the devil also means you know you take
like the really really good ones
number one is actually maybe okay here I
don't want to get close to enemies like
I'll be the first to note that but our
rate of fire is gonna be ridiculous or
you know if you're a map and
counter-strike go it would be de
underscore Rick Ulis it is gonna be a do
Rick Ulis run where did that shot that
he fired go it's just gone but apart
from that we also have infinite range on
little brim so we actually have a means
to to kill enemies from far away which i
think is
extremely important here I'm starting to
get my hopes up and that's scary because
hope is where you know hope is the
summer house of disappointment that's an
expression that I just invented that as
far as I'm concerned it essentially
makes no sense but does it make no sense
or is it the most poetic thing ever
invented nobody knows you know this
history will be the judge of that okay
we took way too much damage there no
lock upgrades taking about the right
length of time on this floor which is
good cuz everybody knows it's like the
number-one rule of Isaac the depths of
one is the longest floor you might say
I've watched all these episodes I
thought I would I heard you mention that
by now if it was such a critical rule I
guess you haven't been paying that much
attention because I say it all the time
I'm always going on about the depths
being the longest so that's one
specifically being the longest of all
floors
it's very paying glossy and good more
bombs I'm gonna check for a second
secret room super quick and we didn't
get it so I'm gonna pounce oh this is
actually completely okay so preserve
your 9% deal with the devil chance
okay preserve your 0.25% deal with the
devil chance okay don't die I'm moving
the goalposts a little bit but
it's okay now we have the ability to fly
and just far too much speed to be
responsible but I think this is I think
we have the tools all that hurts me we
have the tools necessary to win if we
can survive so don't blow it here
good pills that's a terrible pill that's
a fantastic pill that's an awful pill
but you know what if I needed to get
that badness to get the goodness of the
full health then I'll accept it survival
does you know take precedence over
everything here and little brim can win
the game for us I'd really rather not
have to rely on it to win the game for
us but it can do it and it's done it
before
I'm sorry I think number one might have
been that a bit off base here so we
should never run into enemies that can
hurt us via touch probably strength
versus emergency contact I'll stand by
that nice what I keep forgetting we only
have four damage it's not really that
much phd for better pills now you're
just rubbing it in lemon party is
actually like a huge potential Saviour
depending on the situations we find
ourselves in really kill an enemy like
we kill mom pretty fast with this we
should also see if we could maybe get
something in here and I think a single
spirit art is totally fine I would love
to get more than that but that's what
they're gonna do that's what they're
gonna do yeah okay that's this room is a
nightmare it's like the human clock
speed is not high enough that's always
the magician this should be a secret
room we got a check luck please just
lock dude that's it
oh I walked into the freaking fire
now we're up over 15 cents and come back
down here we got a little bit of time
normally you'd like to be like five
minutes four and a half minutes for the
final two floors here but like we'll do
what we can man we're gonna try to take
advantage of whatever we can here blue
map is good enough it's not great but
it's good enough we can probably have a
decent chance to guess where our boss
fights are as a result just for God's
sake just stop running into the champion
that's all I ask
we have a trinket we can now take and a
good pill health upgrade I like it thank
you
right there is logically speaking about
zero chance that this would not be a
dead ends but walk through eighty knew
him didn't even see him until it was
okay now we got problems
they approach so quickly so if we fight
mom we're in like a weird
by the way fight mom great name for like
a graphic novel consider it if we fight
mom we're in a tough spot cuz if we get
hit by the foot we die however if we go
on the back track you might be screwing
ourselves even worse which is why I
decided to just go for this you know
bank on having two thousand hours of
Isaac's kill and hopefully that'll
that'll come through in the clutch and
save me here either way I'd rather leave
the game and that the success of the
challenge up to me then up to the game
if you know what I mean so let's just
peep this there's no chance
yeah there's no chance we take it but we
got a look I'd rather give myself the
ball I'm not the guy who wants to pass
the ball if we you know we got one one
drive left give me the ball I can deal
with being the reason we lose I want to
be the one who has who has control over
the situation
so we bet right there and then I got
overly dramatic as if I was like Mark
Wahlberg and invincible or something
like that but you know what I have told
you a couple of times on this show the
only movies that genuinely like make me
tear up maybe even score it a little bit
sometimes are like cheesy sports movies
where the underdog wins you know the
underdog is gonna win they almost always
win or they lose but they win the real
prize which is a valuable lesson don't
mess with the favorites I don't want to
spend a bomb there we might need it
later well I guess we could get
something valuable in there no that's
probably a better approach there we
actually have a real chance at this one
and it's a big surprise because our
stats are actually the hot garbage and
I'm leveling with you a million percent
on that one our stats are pretty awful
especially
our range which is actually more of a
factor than I'd like to admit what have
we done but little brim the item I took
and said I don't know if that was a good
idea turned out to be like the best idea
we've ever had actually like ten out of
ten and you know what I should have
trusted my instincts here and gone with
the deal with the devil chance gone
should have gone with the second secret
room methodology here because we would
have been going much faster look at that
three demon hearts well worth the time
investment we're supposed to average two
minutes per floor look at our timing
right now we're playing from behind
honestly like we had an early lead and
now we're just trying to protect it
while like the onslaught is happening
we're Jaroslav Halak versus the
Washington Capitals in the 2010 number 8
seed nobody gave him a chance
all of a sudden young goalie out of
Bratislava makes Alexander Ovechkin cry
real tears I'm not trying to bring that
up again Washington you know rest assure
I was a Habs fan then because I it was
like my ancestral team I'm a Canucks fan
now so I've had more than enough try
this I've had more than enough
situations as a Canucks fan them you
know make me feel the pain that you felt
there I'm just saying it can't happen we
got two minutes and four seconds we're
gonna go left every room we don't have
to fight is amazing by the way
only good pills infested these guys are
easy enough to kill I know you're gonna
say you don't have to kill them and
you're absolutely right especially now
though they're almost dead it's not like
we're trying to protect the deal with
the devil get a library or something
there there's no chance that could be
greed right this took way too long we
should have just bombed their way out
two keys two keys spirit heart
Bob's rotten head get dunked on rest
assured I feel it slipping away as I
take 20 years here okay no no this is it
oh it's not it okay we got to go then he
took a bomb to the face and kept taking
I'm scared also not the right direction
we got three bombs left I I see it
slipping you still got a try I mean the
bomb wouldn't have saved us is the thing
if we had just bombed our way through it
probably wouldn't have saved us at least
now we're just hoping against hope like
got to make some good decisions here and
then possibly also have to pick up a
Kaos card you gotta go dude we've only
got two bombs and just land like trying
to save them for rooms that seem a
little bit more mission-critical so
here's what you do you got zero bombs
you get fully healed not fully healed
you get fully charged and then you just
crash into the mom fight mom's hard I
should say and just just destroy them
with one hit I don't think it's
conceivable possible
we're gonna be like two seconds off okay
well you know what that just means we
get one more crack over the course of
this video the timer still I mean we
died but the timer was was done oh it
hurts it hurts okay hold our you know
that was a fairly bad run to get that
far here we go
I probably could have made that one work
but it wasn't like it was a 10 out of 10
run we squandered it was really like a a
1 out of 12 it was like a 7 that we
elevated that's good potentially but not
good enough and I I think the negatives
that come along with it are too
dangerous speedball it's not good enough
you don't really need to walk faster you
need to kill enemies faster and this is
like not gonna help at all not not good
enough ok we should have gone to the
cursor because Guppie transformation is
like a 10 out of 10 and before is good
but not good enough
stigmata what we get out of that plus
0.5 eighth damage it might be a
multiplier but I think it's not quite
good enough to hang our hat on I meant
to go to that by the way I'm waiting for
like an actual great setup and I think
we should at this point cuz there's no
point you know throwing good time after
bad here we're gonna do and this is the
item right here if we're gonna do a full
run to try to beat the speed challenge I
don't want to do to that's just wanna I
don't want to do this speed challenge
ever again once we get it done so I
think deaths touch is it carries some
negatives but it's mostly of course we
don't want to speed up great now I think
about our speed is it to anyway but
death touch is the foundation to win the
negatives exists and they're not always
something that can just be ignored like
the speed down can sometimes be really
bad the rate of fire down can sometimes
be really bad but for the most part it's
it's an extremely great item and
offensively there's not a whole lot in
the game that surpasses its
a good trinket here will be awesome a
good card like the Emperor even just a
one-off The Fool it's a free boss rush
pickup so like I might be okay with it
but I'm not the world's happiest camper
here I think instead we're gonna do is
this so we essentially traded half of a
spirit heart for two bombs and a demon
heart it's actually great trade so be a
great time to get small rock by the way
the spirit hearts are lovely and I do
need and that's not once that's need to
get a deal with the devil here I think
to have a chance to win I really think
we got to stay stacked as quickly as
possible and as commonly as possible
come on just one more hit there it's a
tough room a long room at least but the
damage is is mission critical as well
teleport 2.0 is actually usually you
might think this is a terrible choice
cuz normally when we can teleport 2.0 we
take a hundred years to accomplish
anything as we're trying to make sure
that we get to every available room and
you might be right but it also allows me
to teleport which can save us a lot of
damage I think very quickly I'm just
gonna try to like maybe get myself
second secret room access is there a
battery charge there is okay so now I
have error room access like guaranteed
as long as we get a deal with the devil
and then how long did that take 10
seconds now it's 10 seconds we probably
will not want to afford under most
circumstances to be honest but on the
early floors who knows that you know
error room can hold like a bunch of
stone chests or something we could get
unreasonably stacked this is a tough
fight we want to be out of here by 12
minutes we're gonna be out of here much
faster than 12 minutes which is a good
sign for the future we're certainly
stronger faster than we were on the last
run it's another good damage upgrade and
that's another good damage upgrade and
that's a nother indirectly good damage
upgrade and then ceremonial robes is
also like amazing for us here
so we're doing ridiculous damage our HP
is a serious concern however why arrow
room gives us parasitoid tears and we're
out
that's this all is according to plan
right now this is all positive now
there's certain concerns like our HP is
not incredible but everything else is
going like really really well so we have
eight point eight five damage the the
parasitoid piercing shots are like our
our ace in the hole right now please
excuse me it's moving in aberrations
perks you've got five HP so just try to
be very very intelligent about how this
HP looks right now because that's where
that's where things are gonna hurt and
you're not really doing a great job of
making the audience believe that you've
got that interest in mind right now
thank you
since this would be a throw if we can't
get this one closed this will be a throw
anything can happen when you get down to
like the womb but there's no doubt in my
mind that if we die on like the depths
I'm gonna be kicking myself on this one
I kind of want to go to the and our shot
speed needs to get a little faster too
um I kind of want to go to the special
room that was there and grabs some stuff
but I don't think I'm gonna like we
should just treat teleport 2.0 as a
teleport it's not worth on the speed
challenge at least it's not worth trying
to make it happen here and in fact it
will take book of Belial instead maybe
yeah I think it's there's there's a good
enough case to be made there we're way
ahead of schedule so we should actually
slow down you might by the way be
wondering I'm in like full theory mode
here but you might by the way be
wondering hey idiot why didn't you
teleport to see if you got to a further
along room you're right and you're wrong
if that's your line of reasoning you're
right because it still probably would
move us closer to the boss but you're
wrong because unlike teleport 1.0
teleport 2.0 you can place more bombs
faster unlike teleport 2.0 sorry let me
try this again
unlike teleport 1.0 teleport 2.0 doesn't
allow you to place things to teleport
far away to a random location it
teleports you to the next closest room
you haven't been to which in most cases
is just a room adjacent to you so if
it's closer to the boss good if it's not
then you know you're out of luck if
those enemies are not conceivable to
dodge so we're trying to stack up some
capital here we're also kind of throwing
ourselves on the mercy oh my god we
dodged that kind of throwing ourselves
on the mercy of the this deals with the
devil here we need deals with the devil
so ideally provide us with like an
Abaddon which I don't even know if it's
unlocked yet or 9lives although it's a
little riskier
we've already gotten the item that gives
you uh no it's not worth the time we've
already gotten the item that gives you
uh three spirit hearts for the cost of
three spirit hearts so can't really rely
on sin robes to show up and get cheesed
so even if we only use bookable I'll
once per floor there's still value in it
this is gonna be tricky though except
he's already dead
but we took some oh my god dude
he can't be dodged thank you for the HP
we desperately needed that we didn't
really need to encounter this situation
in my opinion oh my lord I've got to
overclock my brain for this one you're
done you're done we got something good
you know what we got a minute here
to a spades not quite worth it but we're
still in this we got very little HP
we're going down to only depths one
right bank that's one so I think we
might be a little on the slow side which
seems unfathomable to me given how much
better this run is than the last run but
maybe there's you know unseen synergies
in our last run that I didn't really
appreciate I guess our damage stat was
bad but we had little brim and little
brims worth a lot in in Isaac no
question just play it cool
grab yes worth two bombs absolutely in
this day and age
help play it cool don't go too slowly by
spirit arts whenever available and for
you know we got to check the card
strength is actually pretty solid here
we didn't get an item room on this floor
you know what so be it
everything banking time is like
extremely important for us because it
means that on the womb we can play
slower and if we play slower we're much
more likely to play carefully I'm
actually starting to see the win here
and the pacifier with even one extra
spirit heart helps out a lot as does
this room except apparently it turned
out to be garbage so what do I know well
know I will rarely beat myself up over
missing HP but that is that's a bad one
right there
who knows that one spirit heart could
have made all the difference
either way remember what did we say on
the last attempt here we needed on
average like five minutes for the for
the final stages of the game that the
two wound floors we're way way way sorry
I woke you up there Ruka with my hand
clapping we're way way way ahead of
where we need to be there and the run is
better despite the the non little brim
the run is better
I see the wind we got the puck on our
stick right now admittedly like any form
of mapping would be reassuring blank
room I think you take it strength is
good but I think you got to take the
blank route and hope that it's a was or
something along these lines super unit
I'm fine with this being greed honestly
he'll die quick luck luck luck be a lady
tonight nothing okay
trying it could also be on Zeus on Zeus
would be a pretty solid get a woz is
only good if we get out like immediately
on the next floor so we're gonna be
ahead of schedule and it's it's
predominantly gonna be our own skill
determining this I think unlike the last
one the last one we were in like real
tight I felt this one I feel a little
bit more like we've got control over it
we're also like in a much much better
position coming off the mom fight here
and we're gonna have another deal with
the devil for certain as well okay so
grab that that's tough dude that's it
that's a tough decision at this point in
the game but I'm gonna take Rawdon baby
and I understand you're probably
thinking there's a there's a case to be
made for getting down to permanent
polaroid invincibility and I don't
disagree this probably a case to be made
for rockin the nail it is on soos okay
so we know where we're going and this
has potentially saved us I mean without
overstating things it might have saved
the run we are not far from the boss but
I would have assumed that we were on the
left just because I have a tendency to
go left on my like floor finding
algorithm we got the dollar out of that
that's surprising and we still need that
for real platinum god anyway no tinted
rocks mr. Fred mr. Fred take care of the
riffraff on the sides and then get ready
to go for broke here
Rawdon baby proving pretty and valuable
here I think we're in a good spot I
think I think there's a case Judas a
shadow to double our damage if we die
right we have effectively the same
amount of HP right actually we have one
more total HP when you factor in the
respawn and if we end up winning on this
one this is not like a four out of ten
that would come through with the win but
it is like not a nine I think at least
my perspective it this is this is not a
nine so if if we win on this I'm gonna
feel pretty darn good about myself to be
honest with you and I said the last
video or two videos ago I didn't want to
go through you know these challenges in
five different videos if I got a restart
a couple of times to make it work in one
and that's fine now that I've been hit
once though I'm like wait a minute dude
you're super fragile here even after the
respawn I mean that was tough right
there but even after the respawn you're
in a tight spot permanent polaroid
invincibility is like a huge Saviour and
you could bomb your way through these
rooms although you don't have to right
now and to be honest I'm usually pretty
sloppy when I bomb my way through rooms
end up taking damage it shouldn't take a
lot of the times so should hole up there
I think beautiful once we got him in
line there was no chance there are no
tinted rocks just bombs no tinted rocks
this room's a little tricky cuz
effectively the range on anything that
shoots bullets is like 20 times greater
than it otherwise would be on this
challenge no luck upgrades but every
room that we go through especially now
that we know we've conquered like a big
dead-end every room that we go to is a
much much closer step towards the the
mom fight and the less HP we lose or the
less HP we lose especially with zero the
happier we are as those moments coalesce
here
we are very very close there is a tinted
rock there I think we just won
what is that bump I think we just won
not necessarily because of the tinted
rock but the the math is just working
out for us right now probably with
permanent polaroid invincibility we
could use the tower without it being a
catastrophe but why would you ever
chance it I guess is what I'm gonna ask
well that's fine we got permanent polar
invincibility just get in there finish
the job we're good and the challenge is
done Itay I step away from the keyboard
get out of jail free card not bad not
bad for now thanks for watching hope you
enjoyed it that's a big milestone speed
is taken care of if you've enjoyed it
click the like button upside a great
deal of course subscribe you wanna see
more in the future but for now thanks
for watching and I will see you next
time
[Music]